[Transcript missing]
Thanks everybody.
Good to see everybody here today.
I'm here to talk to you about Subversion,
but first, since I'm not an Apple person,
I'm going to go ahead and tell
you a little bit about who I am.
I'm a Subversion developer
employed by Collabnet,
who is a company funding commercial
development of Subversion.
I'm also a member of the
Apache Software Foundation that is
growing day by day and picking up
new sorts of open source projects.
I'm also a co-author of the book called
Version Control with Subversion that
O'Reilly has just informed me they've
sold out of out there in the lobby,
which is great because I'm glad
somebody is selling the book.
It's also available free on
the Subversion book website.
It's the official reference
documentation for Subversion.
Although there are now, I think,
four or even five separate versions.
I used to work for Apple.
I worked for Apple up until
about a year and a half ago,
but even while I worked for Apple,
I was very involved with open source,
specifically Subversion.
I'm also a long-time Next aficionado.
I knew somebody.
I knew I got a woo-hoo
out of somebody for that.
Let's talk a little bit about
what I'm hoping you'll learn today
and what we're going to cover.
We're going to cover a
lot of Subversion basics.
I'd like to do a quick
Q&A of the room here.
Who here has used Subversion?
Oh, this is so great.
Okay, thanks.
Who here has used CVS as well?
Okay.
I'm so sorry.
Really.
We're going to cover a lot of the basic
stuff that you cover with Subversion.
I'm really glad to see so many people
raise their hand and use Subversion
because I came last year to the
open source Birds of a Feather.
I don't know if anyone
here was at that session.
And there was a lot of people there
who had heard about Subversion,
but very few people had used it.
And now I think we're at
almost 50% of the room.
So we're going to cover the basics and
we're going to talk a little bit about
some of the Mac OS X specific goodies.
So what are some of the things
that you can help find Subversion
will help you do on Mac OS X.
And we're also going to cover
actually some of the things that
Subversion won't help you do on
Mac OS X so that those don't bite you.
We're going to cover some Subversion
tips for all you CVS users out there.
So Subversion,
while it's designed with CVS's
development model in mind,
as well as mirroring CVS's
commands to a great extent,
Subversion does not, however,
map one-to-one with CVS.
There are some small little gotchas
that we're going to hopefully touch on.
But first,
a few important Subversion tips.
For those of you,
if anyone here has used a locking model,
or a lock, modify,
unlock version control system,
Subversion uses the copy, modify,
merge model.
Those of you who know
CVS are familiar with that.
It's sort of a melee type of situation.
Everybody modifies a file,
and as long as the version control
system can figure out who changed what,
and there's no conflicts,
it'll merge it all in,
and everybody's sort of happy.
And the mechanism you use for
determining who's working on something
is human-to-human communication,
as opposed to you locking a
file and going on vacation,
and someone else having to call
the administrator to unlock it.
However, Subversion 1.2,
which just fresh out the
door about two weeks ago,
now supports file locking,
also known as reserved checkouts,
which is a great thing to use
on those Xcode project files,
perhaps maybe some of your JPEGs or
binaries or that sort of thing.
So, another thing,
and this is aimed specifically
at you CVS users out there,
is that instead of
file-based revision numbers,
Subversion has repository-wide
revision numbers.
I think this takes a
little bit getting used to,
because you have the one file over
here that you've only edited once,
and its revision number is 8,917.
That doesn't mean it's
changed 8,917 times,
it just means that that's
the repository number.
There's a lot of advantages to that, too,
and maybe I'll touch on
some of those later on.
Lastly, SVN Help is your friend.
SVN Help is,
not an IQ test like CVS Help was.
CVS Help was just a fantastic utility.
In fact,
I had to run CVS Help to figure out
how to use CVS Help to find out what
the command was to do something.
So, SVN Help is a lot friendlier
and a lot easier to use,
and it's good to remember
because it's obviously always
there at your fingertips.
[Transcript missing]
Working with Subversion.
Now this is the part we're
going to concentrate on more,
it's the daily work cycle,
which is where you
come in in the morning,
you update, you modify files,
and you delete, and that sort of thing.
We're also going to cover
working with a static website.
So a lot of people have used
Subversion for source code,
and what we're going to do is an
example of taking a small website
you might have of static pages,
or it could be PHP documents,
that sort of thing, PHP scripts,
and put those in Subversion.
Lastly,
using Subversion in OS config directory.
We're going to talk a little bit about,
we have an example where we'll
show you how to put your Etsy
under version control without
blowing your machine to bits.
And once I'm done with that,
Chris is going to get back
up and show us a little bit,
cover a little bit of
Subversion's Xcode integration.
Now this is a hands-on presentation,
so don't hesitate to raise your hand
and wave at me if I get stuck here.
While I'm going through
what we're doing here,
Fred's going to step up and... sort
of go through the same hands-on
type of things that some of you
who have your laptops out and are
not surfing the web will be doing.
So let's do just a very quick review.
I've got a couple slides
here about Subversion itself.
Subversion's mission statement,
which we came up with back in 2000,
very simple, compelling replacement for
CVS in the open source community.
Well, done.
I'm so happy to get up here
and say that's done instead
of saying it's coming soon.
Not only has it been a
compelling replacement,
but Subversion's turned out to be way
more successful than we ever expected.
We're shooting to provide
a compelling replacement,
but now that we have,
we really didn't know what
we were going to do about it.
Public Subversion DAV servers.
This is one of my favorite
little statistics.
There's a website out there called
Security Space that monitors
Apache modules across the internet,
sort of like the NetCraft
version of Apache modules.
In February of 2004,
there were 1307 Subversion
servers existed.
And I use this date in particular because
that is the date Subversion hit 1.0.
Since then,
we've seen a lot more Subversion
DAV servers out there.
Now, mind you, this is only DAV servers,
and there's another network way to
access your Subversion repository,
which we'll talk about in a bit.
And I'm very happy to see this number.
This also doesn't include
anything behind the firewall,
local repositories people use.
So what this tells me is that
Subversion's catching on pretty well.
So now what are we going to do?
We didn't have any exit strategy.
We sort of subverted CVS and people
are switching over from CVS every day.
Our goal now is to develop new features
to make it even more compelling.
We just finished locking feature,
which is something a lot of
people have been asking for.
A lot of the poor souls, poor,
poor souls who are stuck using
Visual Source Safe have gladly
come over to Subversion.
Thank you.
Log Message Templates is one of the
few CVS features that we do not have,
but we're working on that right now.
We're working on doing it right.
Atomic Renames.
Subversion provides rename capabilities,
copy, move, that sort of thing,
but it's not done in an atomic fashion,
which gives you a little
bit of difficulty when doing
some sophisticated merges.
So we're trying to improve that.
And lastly, sophisticated merge tracking.
Subversion's branching and
merging is already miles ahead
of what you had to do with CVS.
In fact,
I know many people who never branched
in CVS because it was too painful.
I know several people who copied
their whole repository to a separate
repository rather than having to
figure out how to do a branch in CVS.
We're also helping developers
doing tool integration.
Now, as Chris mentioned earlier,
Xcode supports Subversion,
and I'm very happy to say that Apple is
the very first third-party IDE that
claimed full Subversion support.
So, that's been a real huge win, I think,
for Mac developers.
And lastly, we're continuing to fix bugs.
Obviously,
there are things in Subversion that
need to be fixed and improved upon.
And we're working on performance,
scalability, and reliability.
Subversion is faster than
CVS in a lot of areas,
but it's slower than CVS in other areas.
And that has to do with Subversion,
because Subversion is doing so
much more than CVS was doing.
We're remembering a whole lot of
things that CVS just gladly forgot.
So, if you're going to follow along,
we're going to get started now,
and Fred's going to come up here
and drive the sort of demo server.
[Transcript missing]
So, we've got our path set up,
Subversion's in there.
The first thing we're gonna
do is create a new repository
that we're gonna work in today.
We're only gonna create one repository.
Now Subversion, as of 1.1,
has two different repository
backends where we store our,
your data.
The first is the
Berkeley database backend,
and the second one is called FSFS.
Berkeley database uses
Berkeley database files.
FSFS uses just flat file system files.
There's no dependencies on
any sort of database software.
It works fine over NFS,
as well as your local disk.
Now I recommend FSFS on
Mac OS X for one reason,
and that reason is because,
actually for two reasons.
The first reason is that we've
had some problems earlier when
Subversion first hit 1.0 with
Berkeley DB stability on Mac OS X.
Some people had some
corrupted repositories.
Secondly,
is that the FSFS implementation is
the default as of Subversion 1.2.
So, it's much simpler.
There's less moving parts.
It's just got flat files,
and it's easier to rsync and
backup and that sort of thing.
So,
choose your repository access method is
the next thing you have to decide to do
after you've created your repository.
We're going to use the local
repository access method.
And so now we're just going
to go ahead and create it.
Use the svnadmin command.
Subversion is a very common gotcha.
People try to feed a URL to the
SVN admin and it only works with paths.
very common gotcha people try to feed a
URL to the SVN admin and it freaks out.
There are three access
methods for Subversion.
We started off with the DAV method,
but then someone who liked the
CVS Pserver model wrote SVN serve,
which you can run as a daemon.
It will also do authentication
through SVN serve.
Or you can run it over SSH,
which is very similar to the
EXT method that you're probably
familiar with from using CVS.
[Transcript missing]
Thank you.
I didn't actually do that, but thanks.
The really nice win about that is you get
people who aren't familiar with version
control or don't want to deal with it,
that sort of thing.
You just point your browser at
this and save your files over here.
You have a designer who's not interested
in dealing with version control,
wants to drop some JPEGs in
or HTML files or whatever not.
The one caveat with that is that
the way the finder talks to the
file system is kind of chatty.
And the finder doesn't know it's
talking to a version control server,
so one dragged file into
your Subversion repository is
going to result in like six,
seven, eight commits because of the
way the finder handles things.
So it's a little inefficient
from a space point of view,
but again, it's still a huge win.
So importing and getting to work.
So we've created our repository,
now let's stuff something into it.
Now we're going to start off
by importing a project and
then check out a working copy.
And you can also update
an existing working copy.
This is part of your daily cycle,
like I said.
Check out is something
you do infrequently.
In Subversion,
it's a little slower than CVS.
It's a fair bit slower than CVS,
but it's not something that
you should be doing every day.
I know people that do come in
every morning and check out
a new working copy with CVS.
That's mostly because they're afraid
that CVS is going to eat their project.
Fear not,
Subversion will not eat your project.
Importing.
So you choose a directory that you
want to import and run the command.
Now in your 619 Subversion directory,
we've put a little sample directory
in there that's got some files in it,
and you can go ahead now and import that.
Now for those of you
who feared CVS import,
and you know, that's fine.
That's me.
I would go through crazy things to
not have to CVS import because I never
could remember the syntax for it.
Subversion import is
very straightforward.
You give it the path you want
to import and you tell it where
to put it in the repository.
And you can even put it
in a parent directory.
There's different options
you can pass along to it.
Okay.
So, now we want to check
out our working copy.
And actually, do you want to back up?
Do you want to show them your import?
Did you already import that?
Yep.
Okay.
So, is your screen not cleared yet?
Can we switch to demo
two for a second here?
Let's show what Fred's
import went ahead and did.
You can see that Subversion tells you
of all the different files that it
went ahead and added to the repository.
Okay.
If we could switch back to the slides.
Thanks.
Now we're going to go ahead
and check out our working copy.
Since this is our sort of
first start in this project,
we're going to use local access.
We're not going to set up SVN server,
Apache HTTP server.
There's really not time for that today.
And this is a project
you're working on yourself.
So we're going to check it out.
Notice you're giving it a URL.
And we're cheating here.
We're using your dollar
sign home variable.
Is that?
Did you say something?
Okay.
We're using your dollar sign
home environment variable.
And we're taking SVN repos and
we're putting it in a working
directory called SVN WCV.
So if you go ahead and check that out
and you do an LS of that directory,
you'll see there's a single
directory in there called sample.
So that brings us to
the basic work cycle.
Now this is what you're going to be
doing with Subversion 90% of the time.
90% of the time is not import,
it's not checkout, it's update, diff,
add file, remove file,
that sort of thing.
So you start off your day,
so the basic work cycle,
you come into the office,
you update your working copy,
you go out to get a cup of coffee.
You come back,
you make changes to your project,
you add files, you delete files,
you add directories, you, in Subversion,
you copy files, directories,
move them around, that sort of thing.
You examine what you've done,
and then before you commit and send
your changes to the repository,
you're going to want to take a look
at what other people have done.
So you merge other people's
changes into your working copy,
check everything out,
make sure it still works.
I mean,
you really want to make sure that,
and you might want to build
in case someone's changed some
files that you're working on.
And then lastly, you commit your changes
to the repository.
For other developers.
Now, some people make this work
cycle a day-long work cycle.
Some people update in the morning,
and they don't commit anything
at the end of the day.
Some people don't commit
anything to the end of the week.
For best practice with Subversion,
we recommend you choose a small
granularity for your work cycle.
Choose a particular feature,
a particular bug fix,
or that sort of thing.
And roll through this work
cycle frequently during the day.
It seems a little onerous at first,
but it's something that you
definitely get used to pretty quickly.
And Subversion is optimized.
Speed-wise for these sort of operations,
and tries to do as much as it can
without going over the network.
So, we've got our working copy,
we checked it out, now we're going to
update our working copy.
We're going to bring changes
from other developers in.
Now, right now,
so we see the end of the working copy,
and we're going to run
the update command,
and it says you're at revision one,
nothing's happened, there's no one else
working on this project.
So it's pretty
straightforward at this point,
no surprises.
So then we're going to go
ahead and make changes.
Now, in Subversion,
you're obviously going to edit files.
You're going to add and
delete files or directories.
And when you delete a directory,
it goes away.
And that was like CVS,
where the directory
just keeps coming back.
It's like the directory
that just wouldn't die.
You can also move and copy
files and directories.
Remember to use the Subversion
command line client or some Subversion
client when moving or copying things.
If you use the finder or if you just use
Unix CP or move to move things around,
Subversion is going to get confused.
It's not going to know what happened.
So you definitely want to remember
to let Subversion know to do this.
So it will take a little
bit of a change to do that,
changing your developing patterns.
So here, for example,
we're going to start off removing
the file afile.txt to foo.txt.
and which is moving a file,
which is great.
We're going to copy images to photos.
And I look forward to the day
where I'm not walking around here,
God, this is so cool, I can move a file.
You're going to copy the images
directory to the photos directory.
So we're going to wind up
with two directories there.
and I used open command here
because another file.txt that'll
pop open text edit or whatever you
have to that to that MIME type.
So open up another file.txt and you'll
make some sort of change and save it.
Now,
I'm saying this again for CVS people,
don't forget you can
move and copy things.
I have sat in day-long meetings
determining how a project is going
to be laid out before importing
it because you can't move things.
It really is the kind
of thing where you're,
it took me quite a while to get used
to the fact that I could move things,
you know.
Eventually you get all
cavalier and you're like,
"I'll just move this over here
and then over there," and you
wind up rearranging your project.
People who do development where
you're constantly refactoring,
this is a huge win.
So we've made some changes,
now we're going to examine those changes.
Again, like I said, review what you've
done before committing,
view the files and
directories that have changed.
So here we run the SVN status command.
It puts out one line per file
that's modified or changed.
Notice it only shows
you interesting files.
You can pass the verbose
option to Subversion status,
and it will show you every file.
You can also tell it to be non-recursive.
There's a bunch of other options
that SVN help will tell you about.
But for starters here,
you can see that we have foo.txt,
which is added, as photos,
which is also added.
Now photos is a copy from
the images directory,
as we know,
and foo.txt is a move from afile.
So you can see afile.txt
has been deleted,
and foo.txt has been added.
So the little plus signs mean that
this has some sort of history.
Subversion is going to remember
where these things came from.
It's going to remember where they came
from when you run Subversion log on them.
And lastly, another file.txt isn't
terribly interesting,
it's just been modified.
So again, for CVS users,
stop using the update command to see
what's changed in your working copy.
SVN status does not
change your working copy.
It does not contact the server.
It uses data that's stored
in your .svn directories to
figure out what's going on.
So it's the kind of thing you
can run without network access.
So we're going to also view the
contents that you've changed.
So you've seen the files.
Maybe you've made changes to
the structure of your project.
But what if you changed files?
So svndiff, by default,
outputs what's called
unified diff format.
Now if you look here,
the very first file has a minus
one line that's been deleted.
That's the file afile.txt
that's been removed.
Or actually,
it's been renamed to foo.txt, I believe.
And then we see another file.txt that
has one line that's been modified.
We change that.
It says this is a sample file, eek,
instead of boo.
So that's what svndiff
will give you the changes.
Now svndiff is not going to show
you changes to binary files,
but it will say that a file is
changed with binary content.
Now I use the word merge here
because we're not actually
running the merge command,
which Subversion does have one.
But you're going to pull changes from
the repository into your working copy.
Undoubtedly, if you're working on a busy
project with a larger team,
you're going to have other people
making changes and committing
them throughout the day.
So this will pull any other changes from
the repository into your working copy.
Now you can get a preview of
what the update command will
do by running status with -u.
Unlike running straight SVN status,
-u will make a trip to the server
because it's going to find out
what files will be updated,
and it will mark those
accordingly in the status output.
So, again, we're working on this big,
exciting project here all
by ourselves on our laptop.
Update, and we got nothing.
So, we're still at revision one.
[Transcript missing]
Any questions so far?
Is anyone lost?
Is anyone following along here?
Everyone?
Okay.
So other Subversion commands we've got.
We have a number of others.
Subversion has many commands.
We've done our best to keep the
command set small in Subversion.
The more commands we have,
the more difficult it's going to
be for people to learn and use.
And I know it's a
command line application,
it's not some sort of beautiful
Cocoa app or anything like that.
But we do put some effort into
the UI of our command line binary.
One thing I will point out is that
options can go anywhere in the line.
In CVS they had global options that
went before the command and local
options that went after the command.
And -d meant one thing under one
command and another thing under another.
We don't do that anymore.
An option is global period the end.
So let's start talking about svn-revert.
Now this is a great
little helpful command.
It discards any changes that you've
made in your working copy and goes
back to the base revision of a file.
Now I'm very specific
on saying base revision.
And I'll go through it a little bit.
Go through this example and explain why.
For example, here we're going to cat the
mati file into our file foo.txt.
Can we switch to demo two now?
Actually, I'll go ahead and let
Fred show this live.
Can you make that a little bigger?
Fred's gone ahead and
tossed that into there,
so now take a diff and you can
see that he's changed the file.
So if you want to go ahead
and get rid of your changes,
you're going to run SVN revert.
You have to provide the file name.
It does not by default choose your
dot as path in your current directory.
It does not by default act recursively.
It knows that it can blow away
local data that you've made so that
command is very careful about it.
As you can see with diff,
nothing happens here.
You can go back to the slides now.
You have to provide the file name.
It does not by default choose your
dot as path in your current directory.
You can go back to the slides now.
One thing I want to point
out about SVN revert,
CVS revert consists of two
commands as you all know,
which is delete the file
and then run CVS up.
Now the big problem with doing that,
and it's a habit you might
go ahead and continue to do
while you're in Subversion,
the big problem with doing that is that
you might not get the same version of
the file you had in your working copy.
Your working copy has a
revision we refer to as the base
revision of your working copy,
and when you update you're going
to get the head revision of the
server unless you specifically tell
it to give you a different version.
So revert the file instead
of deleting it and update it.
It's hard to remember these little
sort of things at first I think.
So SVN resolve, CVS when you got a
conflict in a local file,
you'd have to go ahead and fix the
conflict markers and get rid of it and
try and remember which part of it was
yours and which part of it was not.
Subversion resolve not only will
tell Subversion you fixed the
conflict but it will also remove any
temporary files that were created.
So here we have a file
foo.txt as a conflict.
Obviously,
this isn't something you can sort
of play along with here because
you're working by yourself,
but in this scenario the
foo.txt file has a conflict.
So what Subversion does is
it creates three new files.
One is the original file foo.txt which
has all the funny little greater than
less than conflict markers in it.
And then the next file is .mine which is
the file you were working on just now.
And then it has the base revision of
your working directory and then it
also has the revision that it just
pulled down from the repository.
So you can feed those files to
another to an external program.
You can feed it to file merge or
whatever not and look at what happened
and go ahead and make your changes.
If you're really feeling cavalier you
can copy .mine back to foo.txt and
blow away somebody else's changes.
I recommend being careful doing
that because if your coworkers
are dangerous or carry heavy
weaponry you might get hurt.
So once you've gone ahead and
figured out what you can do with your
conflict you run the svn resolved
command and on the file again this
is a This requires a specific path.
So there we go.
It got rid of all of our extra files.
svn info file now svn info corresponds
pretty closely to CVS status.
You get a lot of info about a file.
Again this command does
not go over the network.
It does it deal straight with the working
copy directory metadata and it tells
you all sorts of info which I'm not
going to go into depth but you know go
ahead and I'll let something I'll let
you do that at home for fun tonight.
Manipulating and viewing properties.
So subversion is a concept of
properties which is file metadata
think extended attributes but it's
not really extended attributes.
And it allows you to set those
attributes in any way that using any
of these commands as well as retrieve
them back from the repository.
Now the great thing about these
properties is that there are properties
that subversion uses internally
as vn ignore to tell subversion what to
ignore files to file patterns to ignore
in a directory subversion you can also
use it to set tell subversion to set.
So subversion is a concept of
properties which is file metadata.
set the end of line style if you're
working cross platform with people
you can use it as you can tell us
the version expand keywords in a file
so version doesn't do any of that by
default because it's not gonna munch
up your data so manipulating properties
prop set prop edit and prop dollar the
way you can manipulate properties so if
you want to set a property for example
the mime type property now as we talked
earlier you can serve your subversion
repository through DAV and if you drop
an HTML file into your repository then
you go and you look at it through in
in a Safari you're gonna it's gonna be
served up as text and you're gonna look
and be looking at HTML tags however if
you set the mime type of an HTML file
in this case a JPEG then subversion
will happily set that as it feeds
it out to you through the web server
So, now,
another thing you can use is prop edit,
which is the kind of,
prop edit's what you want to use
if you're going to edit a multiple
line property like SVN ignore,
which is a new line separated list of
patterns of files you're going to ignore.
So, in my case, I used emacs here,
and it waits for it,
and then it was done,
and it says it set a new value.
So,
we can take a look at what that value,
SVN diff is going to show you the
differences in the properties,
and then SVN status will show you
that the status has been changed.
Are you ready for that, Fred?
Can we go back to demo two here?
Just take a peek at
what Fred's got there.
Okay, notice it shows you up here that
you've got the new properties,
property set, property changes on dot.
It's set your ignore.
As Fred said, it's a star, tilde,
I believe.
And we also have the new mime
type image JPEG on the other file.
Back to the slide, please.
So you can manipulate properties.
You can also manipulate
revision properties.
Now this is an interesting concept.
Properties correspond in
Subversion to files or directories.
However, Subversion also ties
properties to a revision.
Every revision gets an author,
which is the person
who made the revision,
and it also gets a log message.
And there's some other things, I believe,
date and whatnot.
But these are non-version
properties tied to revision,
and they can be changed by using
the --revprop option to SVN prop
set or prop edit as well.
Now here, for example, running --revprop,
and I say,
please change the revision property
SVN log on revision one and
change it to the words new file.
Unfortunately,
actually not unfortunately,
very carefully,
that is not enabled by default.
So by default,
Subversion does not allow that.
It does not allow you to change
this revision property data
because it's not in version data,
and it's a repository
administrator's decision whether
or not they want to change that.
So, however,
Subversion even tells you how
to go ahead and change that.
So it's pretty easy for your
administrator to do that.
And that's -- you can find out in the
book how to do that pretty easily.
So viewing properties,
if you want to look at
properties or examine properties
on a file or directory,
you can use prop get or prop list.
Prop get here, for example,
we say prop get svnmime
type foo.jpg and it returns,
big surprise here, image slash jpg.
If we run prop list on an S, on,
and we say I want to see the Sfinignore,
prop list also will show
you that sort of thing.
Prop get will also show you that as well.
So there's other commands that
I'm not going to go over here.
I do want to take a
quick peek here at them.
We have svncat,
which is for concatenating a file.
Cleanup,
which is to clean up your working copy.
Your working copy's got a
whole lot more stuff going on.
It journals every command it's
going to do before it actually does
it to make sure that it doesn't
lose any information and keep
your working copy in a sane state.
Again,
Subversion does its best to be atomic,
both in the client and server.
Export is pretty much what you'd expect.
It exports a file.
List is a way of looking at,
of browsing a directory without
actually checking it out.
Lock, unlock,
or do you know the locking stuff?
SVN merge.
So these are some of the other commands.
There's still,
there's other subcommands and
there's other options and whatnot,
and you can find out what those are.
But I just wanted to point out that
there's still other stuff that we're
going to skip across here so we can get
on a little more hands-on information.
So, using Subversion for a website.
There's a number of different ways
you can publish your website if
you want to put it in Subversion.
Now, typically here I'm
talking about a website,
a static collection of pages
or PHP scripts or CGI scripts
or that sort of thing.
I'm not talking about web applications
or web objects or stuff like that.
You're going to put these files
in there and you're going to then
serve them off your web server.
So one way to do it is you just
put a Subversion working copy
in Document Reader of your web
server and you go in there and
you run SVN update every once in a
while and it pulls changes in the
repository and then serves them up.
Another way of doing it is to use
a post-commit hook to update a
working copy on your web server.
However, your repository and website
have to be on the same machine,
the same server to do that,
or at least have access
to the same file system.
So that's sort of an automatic way.
So you make a change and boom,
immediately it goes live to your website.
You can also,
if your web server is in another machine,
have it occasionally pull
the repository for updates.
Maybe you have a cron job that runs
every hour that updates the working copy.
It's working copy based on what
you've committed to the server.
Or, lastly, and this is, you know,
if you're feeling cavalier,
you can serve your site right
from your Subversion repository.
You need to make sure your MIME types
are set properly on your files,
and it also does require that you
use HTTP server and not SVN serve.
And that, again,
this is only a static site only.
If you serve your site from Subversion,
you can't serve PHP scripts
from your Subversion repository
and expect PHP to parse them
and hand them off to the users.
What you're going to get out of
that is just raw PHP scripts.
So,
that's sort of a shortcoming of the way
that the Apache modules are laid out.
So inside your lovely sample tarball,
there's a dump file.
It's named website.dump in
this SVN dump files directory.
And we're going to go ahead
and load it into a Subversion
repository and take a look at how
the MIME types are set in that.
So this is an example.
What I've used here is
Subversion's website itself.
So you've got a copy of
Subversion's terribly exciting
website on your laptop there.
And what that is is a
Subversion dump file.
Subversion dump files are a way
of exporting your Subversion
repository from the repository into
a flat file format that you can
then load into another repository.
So if you're going to transition from,
let's say,
Berkeley database on G5 processor to
Berkeley database on an Intel processor,
you would want to dump your repository
and then load it into the new repository,
the new machine.
If you're using FSFS,
there's no cross-platform
issues to deal with there.
It's also... Subversion dump is a
great thing to use for... The dump is
a good way to back up your repository,
that sort of thing.
So we go ahead and run this and
it's going to start adding stuff
and doing all these sort of things.
And then we can go in our
work and copy and update and
we'll go ahead and see that.
and then by doing prop list,
once we're back in the working copy,
you can take a look at
all the different things.
So let's switch over to demo
two and see what Fred's got.
Are you keeping up with me here?
Yeah.
So you can see all the A's there.
Right up there.
Here's the load.
Go ahead.
Here's the update and the working copy.
And then here comes typo.
There's all the properties.
So you can see everything's
got its property set.
PNGs are set right.
EOL style, you might see on one of those.
It's patch.txt in there.
There's a EOL style set to native,
so that it comes with the proper end
of line markers for Windows and Unix.
Okay, we can go back to slides.
So managing OS config files,
that's managing a website.
Like I said, it's nothing exciting,
but it's good to know
a few tips about it.
But managing OS config files
is kind of a neat thing.
When we wrote the Subversion book,
all the authors would hang out in
the Subversion users IRC channel,
and we wrote the book based on questions
people asked and approaches that
people took to dealing with Subversion,
to learning Subversion,
that sort of thing.
Now, the one problem that we ran
into frequently was that some
user would come in and be like,
"You know,
I went to my machine and I wanted
to put Etsy in Subversion,
and I moved it aside and
I tried to check it out,
and you know, next thing you know,
their machine is booted." So there's
a couple of different tricks
that you can use with Subversion.
First of all, it's definitely possible,
but you're going to want to be careful.
You don't want to blow
your Etsy directory away,
and you certainly don't want to
make your machine unbootable.
So, what you're going to do here,
we'll do a quick review
of what we're going to do.
We're going to add a directory
to your Subversion repository.
We're going to check
out the empty directory.
And then we're going to take the .svn
directory inside of that directory and
move it into your config directory,
which is in this case, Etsy.
We're not going to put it
in your real Etsy directory.
I want to say that.
So please don't get ahead of me here.
This is just a demo.
You're going to run SVN status
and then you're going to see,
you know, magic happens basically.
So then once you've done that,
you can go ahead and add files and
directories that you want to manage under
version control and just ignore the rest.
So we'll start one step at a time
here and go ahead and do this.
So you start off by adding a new
directory to your Subversion repository
and then you're going to check it out.
I'm doing this here.
We have the SVN make dir command
to create a new directory and
I'm specifically using the
file colon slash slash URL.
Notice that I'm creating a
directory on the repository in the
repository without a working copy.
You have to pass a log message
to this because you're actually
changing the repository.
There's no two steps.
There's no make directory, then commit.
This is a one step sends everything in.
So once we do that,
then we're going to go ahead
and check this out into a
new directory in our home.
And this is a temporary checkout,
so you can check it in a
temp or whatever or not,
but we're going to check it in
our home directory slash svnetc.
Now we cheat.
We move the .svn directory over
into your configuration directory.
Now,
I've given you a dummy Etsy directory
in the 6.19 Subversion directory,
so if you go ahead and move the
.svn directory into there...
You run SVN status and you're going
to see all sorts of crazy stuff.
So if we can switch over to demo.
I did the wrong move, sorry.
You didn't put that in
your real Etsy directory,
did you Fred?
Want to try it again?
Yeah.
Okay, so let's go back here.
Let's watch Fred struggle
here for a minute.
I don't have any jokes
prepared or anything,
so I don't know that I can cover for you.
Fred switched into the fake Etsy
directory and he's going to run status.
Now you see just a bajillion
different question marks.
Those sort of apply to every
file and directory in Etsy.
So you can at your leisure add files
and directories to version control.
You're working in your
live Etsy directory again.
You're going to want to be careful
when you're in there just as you'd be
careful while you're in there as well.
Now if you have a server that
you're sharing with different users,
Subversion has a dash dash username
switch that you can pass to it.
So if you have different people
operating on files in Etsy as root,
you get to tell them to remember to
use the dash dash username switch so
that they can commit things as their
own username and pass their own,
obviously their own credentials.
So, as you can see,
Fred went ahead and added
Etsy print cap and FTP users,
and now he's going to write a
quick log message for some of
the changes that he's made.
And notice he's using,
he didn't pass a log
message in the command line,
so it popped up in editor form.
That was a prop edit.
That was a prop edit?
Yeah.
Okay, well go ahead and commit it then.
So, you don't necessarily want to
check in your host key file,
so like this is an example of
something you might want to add to
your ignore if you're doing that here,
or, you know, Fitz files.
That kind of thing.
Okay.
So, now when I do SVN status.
The SSH host key files,
the pub key is there,
but the private keys are not
showing up as something that
I want to check in for you.
Excellent.
And now if you're really
crazy like myself,
you can put your home directory
under version control.
I've never had to do so much pruning and
cleaning up in my life before I did it.
If we could switch back to slides.
But the one nice thing that gets
you is you get a new machine and
you're set up in no time flat.
All you gotta do is check out your home
directory and kind of move it into place,
log in again,
and you've basically got your whole
environment you've come to expect.
And in addition,
you've got your home directory
backed up on your server somewhere,
which you're also backing up, right?
So now I'm going to hand over the demo
here to Chris Parker to talk a little
bit about using Subversion in Xcode.
And then hopefully we'll finish
up a couple minutes early because
for these sort of hands-on
sessions with Subversion,
I tend to see a lot more Q&A than usual,
so we'll have plenty of time for Q&A.
So if we could have demo two up here,
I guess.
So I've opened up the sample app
Xcode project that Fitz put in your--
The first place to look here in Xcode
if you haven't already turned on the
SCM stuff is to look in the project
info tab here where it says general
and down here where it says enable SCM,
you'll have which SCM system
you're going to use.
In this case we're using Subversion.
And you may,
if you've configured things differently,
you may have to edit the path
here to the Subversion binary.
In this case it's installed here
on Fred's machine at that location.
So once you've got that
set up and enabled,
all of the SCM operations
that are available here in
the menu work with Subversion.
So we can take a look at, for instance,
a file here like maincontroller.m.
And if we ask it to get SCM info here,
we'll see that we've got a file
here that says maincontroller.m.
We've got the revision
numbers down here on the left,
the authors who committed
the files in the middle here,
what date it happened on,
and the message.
And there's even more
information down here about,
well it's actually the same
information about the file
names and things like that.
So this is a good graphical way just
to be able to see a whole list of
all the changes that have happened.
We can also take a look at
maincontroller.m itself.
And when it's up, or when it's selected.
And the project thing,
everybody's probably done this, right?
One of the options you can
do is update to latest.
You can compare with different revisions.
But one of the things you
do is get annotations for.
CVS has this command called svn annotate,
right?
Which shows you that
whole list of things.
Let's be honest.
Who's actually ever
looked at that and said,
hey, I want to know who wrote that
really nifty bit of code.
You're really interested in the
guy who broke the build last night.
So when you check out get
annotations for latest,
you can see that.
For this file,
we've got the revision number down here.
The author down the side here.
And then the lines of the text.
And I can look at, for instance,
this NS log that fits
as left in the file.
That says clearing count field.
Oh gee,
let's get rid of that because we don't
want to put that in production code.
So we'll go back to the
maincontroller.m source file here.
We can just select it
and delete the file.
And now we can do things as
soon as we've saved it and say,
compare with.
That should say latest, but let's see.
We can update the entire
project and compare with latest.
And this actually launches Xcode and
goes ahead and does a comparison.
And oh look,
we see that in the old version,
it's got the log in it,
but in the new version, it doesn't.
So now we've verified that that is
actually the change we wanna make.
And I can actually say
from the SCM menu here,
commit changes.
And it pops down a little sheet
where I can type the log message.
So instead of firing stuff up
from the command line client,
I can do this.
So remove log from Fitz.
Oops.
spell his name right.
And when I commit it,
the SCM information is updated and now
if I look at things like the SCM info,
I see that, well,
I'm actually Fred committing this,
so when somebody looks back and
finds out who broke the bill,
it'll look like it was Fred.
But we removed the log from Fitz and
then we can also take a look at
the annotations and we'll see that,
you know,
that line that was there is gone and it
looks like this is all my file again now.
So there are a lot of
other features here,
but mostly the things that are
in the SCM menu in Xcode deal
with the day-to-day things,
right?
So tagging and branching and stuff
like that are things that you'll
probably do with a command line
client unless new menu options show
up here in Xcode at some point.
But this is mainly the copy, modify,
merge kind of stuff.
You check something out, you work on it,
you commit it back up,
and that lets you update the
entire project with all your stuff.
So for your basic workflow,
you can stay in Xcode.
For a lot of the things that you're
going to do day in and day out.
And for a lot of our internal
testing projects and stuff like that,
we actually use this here at work.
And that's it.
If we could get the slides back here.
Fred Heslick-Clicker.
[Transcript missing]
If you want more information
about Subversion,
that's the WWC Uber URL for all
things related to anything in WWC.
You can also go to Subversion.Tigris.org,
which is the homepage for the site.
You can Google it if you
forget the actual name.
And you can also buy the book
from O'Reilly & Associates.